# Adapt

During our analysis we discovered that some major parts of our design did not adhere to a user-centered design. Specifically, when a new workout is selected, the time immediately starts elapsing even though the user is not engaged in physical activity yet because the workout has no exercises yet. The team hasn’t fully addressed how to solve this issue besides knowing that we’ll have to add another intermediate screen to allows the user to “set-up” their workout before starting it.
Another design flaw we noticed (this could be due to lack of vertical integration) was active feedback on the workout templates page. The user does not receive any feedback when they click the ‘+’ button on the template cards (shown in appendix workout template with start button). They should be able to understand and find which template they chose in an easy to understand/navigate way. Maybe a dialog pop-up showing them the template that they have selected would be a great way for a user to understand what selection they have made and when they will be able to start their workout. We realized that the Start Workout button was placed a screen too early in the action sequence, in our next iteration, we will make these changes. 
The navigation through the pages is not always predictable and the user might have to get used to some features such as the history which is in the dashboard and not in the profile tab which could be different for new users. Including text under the icon’s names could increase the visibility of the dashboard/history if we highlight the name as “History”. This could aid with learnability and memorability for the user since they could legibly read what the following action sequence is. Additionally, more thought needs to be put into the navigation that proceeds from the back button, where to redirect, which pages must have it, and which pages should not.
The Cancel and Finish buttons on the workout pages does not have error prevention and does not give feedback to the user if the workout is canceled or finished. The team has decided to give user a pop up when they click the cancel button which allows users to cancel the workout or return to the workout if not intending to cancel their workout and when clicking the Finish button instead of going to the home screen, we decided to give a pop-up message to the user that the workout is finished successfully.
Having the profile page completed to highlight some more features, especially achievements, is also something that we plan to address in the next stage of prototyping. Understanding what features need to be included in the profile page will be valuable to know and can be easily implemented in the next iteration. 
One thing that we also noticed was the lack of a “log out” function, this will probably be mapped to the profile page in the next iteration.

